The file has 79,160 observations and 87 variables (memory usage: 30+ MB). If your computer has memory restrictions feel free to complete the experiment with a smaller sample of the provided data.

In the given data file, there are various information related to patient status in the ICU (demographics such as age, weight, BMI etc; APACHE-Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation covariates) and other related comorbidities; vital and laboratory test results collected within 24h of admission are provided. A further description of the fields can be found in the Data Dictionary for the dataset. Your task is to accurately classify the diabetes_mellitus status of the patient from the given fields and report back on your findings. Intensive Care Units (ICUs) often lack verified medical histories for incoming patients and a model with the accurate capability to indicate chronic conditions such as diabetes can help decisions about patient care.

To accomplish your task, you need to perform the following operations:

1. Download the dataset and prepare a summary of the features available on the dataset including data type (numerical/ categorical), amount of missing data in individual fields. This can be included as an appendix.

2. Undertake any cleansing or pre-processing you think is necessary on the dataset. In your report, explain clearly what you have done and why you have done it. Some cleaning could be to remove any feature/column with 60% missing values or holding NULL values, constants, NaN values, or to remove duplicate and highly correlated information. You can also perform outlier detection at this stage if this seems appropriate.

3. Split the data into a training set and a test set once cleansing is done. Use suitable toolkit and libraries (Python, Orange, Weka, or R whichever platform you are comfortable with) to train models (e.g. Decision Tree, Random Forest or SVM) from the training set to build the diabetes_mellitus status classifier. Note that you should deal with any class imbalance, do feature selection and other adjustments/tuning to improve the quality of the models obtained. You will need to test the performance of your model on your test set. As part of your final report, please describe and justify the decisions you have made, the results, how the models have been validated/evaluated and discuss the best model’s effectiveness in terms of precision and recall performances.

4. In the next stage, use an unsupervised clustering algorithm (K-means, or hierarchical) using the selected features from the previous stage. Use Scatter plots or t-SNE plots on the clusters to see if there are clusters formed for the various patient groups (without diabetes_mellitus-0, with diabetes_mellitus-1). The diabetes_mellitus field should be omitted during clustering. Discuss your observations on the clusters in your report.